Overview of ChIP-seq analysis
1. Sequence reads
2. Quality control - FASTQC
3. Alignment to genome - BWA, BOWTIE -> BAM files
4. Post-alignment processing - Samtools: remove duplicates, down-sampling
5. Peak calling - MACS2 followed by QC/filter peaks
5.5 Peak comparsion Differential blinding - Diffbind between groups (e.g. TF1 vs TF2); ChIPseeker; Bedtools
6. Downsteam analysis
    - Annotation of peaks (ChIPseeker)
    - Motif discovery and enrichment (MEME suite)
    - Multi-omics integration

QC fastq files - using fastqc module
Trim adapters if needed using 'cutadapt'
    module load using anaconda3
Sequence alignmnent to genome using Bowtie2
    can do single end or paired end reads
    output of alignment is SAM alignment files
Remove duplicates and downsampling
    convert SAM to BAM format - samtools view -S -b sample.sam > sample.bam
    sort alignment with regard to their position in the reference genome - samtools sort sample.bam -o sample.sorted.bam
    index bam file - samtools index sample.sorted.bam
    remove PCR duplicates - samtools rmdup -s sample.sorted.bam sample.rmdup.bam
        -s: remove duplicates for single-end reads
        -S: treat paired-end reads and single-end reads
    downsample the larger bam to match the small bam in the pair if needed, but peak calling methods may contain this function - samtools view -s 0.1 bamfile.bam > ten_percent_of_bamfile.bam
PICARD suite to manipulate SAM/BAM
    PICARD - A set of command line tools (in Java) for manipulating high-throughput sequencing (HTS) data and formats such as SAM/BAM/CRAM and VCF.
    samtools flagstat sample.bam
Peak calling using MACS2
    using conda environment install macs2
    output files
        _peaks.broadPeak or _peaks.narrowPeak: BED6+4 or BED6+3 format file which contains the peak locations together with peak summit, pvalue and qvalue
        _peaks.xls: a tabular file which contains information about called peaks. Additional information includes pileup and fold enrichment
        _summits.bed: peak summits locations for every peak. To find the motifs at the binding sites, this file is recommended (only for narrowPeak)
        _model.r: an R script which you can use to produce a PDF image about the model based on your data and cross-correlation plot
        _control_lambda.bdg: bedGraph format for input sample
        _treat_pileup.bdg: bedGraph format for treatment sample
    IGVtools to inspect bedgraph and called peak files

